I always forget this.
OK, so before I start today's topic,
I wanted to discuss a very
interesting problem with the lab 09.
Uh, and uh, it's a good, uh?
I mean, that's the main
reason behind the labs.
I mean, facing the problems and try
to solve these problems because.
These are programming problems
or technical problems,
and as long as you don't do the
programming and you don't face the problem,
I mean personally you cannot.
I mean have the learning experience
about solving that problem.
So very interesting problem with the lab 9.
Is this a one of the I mean solution that
you can use or your thinking to use is that?
Uh, using a file or a pipe so at
the time that we release the lab,
we discuss how to share a file for
communication between the child
and parent and then last week we
introduced the pipe and I mean even
last session we finish using the pipe.
Communication between the child
and the parent.
So in the lab 09 you can use both.
I mean approaches whether you use a
file or a pipe or other approaches,
whatever approach you like, it is OK.
For instance,
memory mapped or shared memory
that we didn't discuss.
So, but whether you are using file or pipe,
because in this lab you are going
to create more than one child,
you have children.
Uh,
basically for lab nine in the example
that we provided was one child per row.
In this submission that you had to
do was that one child per color.
So if you have a a 10 column matrix,
you're gonna have ten child.
So what's the problem?
So if you use only one file or one pipe,
then are probably you ask the child
to write to that single file.
So as a result,
all of the children gonna use the
same file to put the result of
multiplication for each column
into the same file.
Or a same pipe and then in the
parent part you wait for all
the children to finish and then
you start reading from the file.
So basically this is the pattern that
you are going you probably used.
So at the parent you wait.
And you don't care what is the exact
status of the child for simplicity.
And then after all the parents are or
the children are done, you will start
reading from the file or the pipe.
But the problem is that imagine the
result of the first multiplication for
the first column of first row, is this.
And then a second row or second column
is this and the last column or last?
Or is this? Basically we have a
three column a matrix for instance.
So and then it child actually could do the
multiplication and wanted to, uh, I mean,
input the result into the same file.
What happens is that.
Because we said that we shouldn't
assume how much CPU process can be
allocated to each process and when
the CPU or the process is going
to be allocated to the process,
we don't know which one going to write first.
Imagine that the kernel gives the
first child. One slot of the CPU.
Or one time period of the processor and
then the child official could write.
The first number one.
However,
suddenly they cannot decide to
get back the processor and give
it to the second child.
Sorry to the third child.
So then the third child gonna
write out at the put the result 7.
And then suddenly the kernel
decides to get back to processor
and give it to the second child.
And the second child right one number.
And then the kernel again get back to
processor and give it to the first child
and the first child gonna read out,
for instance their remainder number and etc.
So we set that as the programmer.
We should.
We should not assume anything about.
When the processor gonna be allocated
to a process and for how long?
So you shouldn't assume that the first
child gonna have the processor and write
out all the result and then it goes to
the second chart and it writes at 456
and goes to this third child and then.
789 it should be totally
in the opposite direction.
For instance, the kernel may give the
processor to the third chart fares.
And then the second child
and then to the third child.
Or this is the worst case scenario.
Meaning that at the middle of
the operation for one child,
the professional gets back the
kernel and give it to another child.
This is the worst case scenario.
So what's the solution, any idea?
actually that was the problem that, uh,
I think Arnish faced and discuss with me.
Any idea to fix the problem?
So Nicholas says that you can use a sword.
No, no, not imagine these
are different numbers,
so these are just sample numbers.
So let me clear this slide.
Imagine so if you have, for instance,
these are the results of multiplication.
For instance, you have ten
19, 20 for the first child, we have 5, 15
and three for the second child.
So even if you do this
sorting your I mean kind of.
Doesn't work. You want the child
to put the result in order.
You have to force an order
without any assumption about
the processor allocation.
So Michelle says that I used memory map.
I think even in the memory map
you're gonna have a problem.
So Isaac also says that memory maps so.
A map is a way that you can
share another file or pipe,
but you can share part of memory.
So, uh, I think even in that
case you can have a problem.
Uh, unless something they can
do something for you or you ask,
they cannot do something for you.
But the easiest way,
I mean without an extra knowledge
without an any I mean new topic.
One way is that, uh, you remember last?
Meeting, uh,
I couldn't find a use case for his sleep,
so this is one potential solution.
So you could say that.
If it is the first child.
Uh, it goes directly.
Start writing to the pipe or file.
But if it is the the
child number you can pick.
I mean you know how many child in
each iteration you are creating.
So if it is in the second iteration
or in the third iteration,
you will try to sleep the
other child by a number.
For instance if you are at the
iteration I you can put the
child in the sleeping mode off
for instance I multiply by 10.
Meaning that if it is the second child,
it goes to 10 seconds.
Sleeping if it is the third child,
so if it is not at 0, this is the first child.
The second child goes to 10
seconds sleep and the third child
it goes to 20 seconds.
So this way you are kind of trying
to make an order between the child so
the first child doesn't go to sleep,
it goes directly with the result
into the file.
The second child sleeps for 10
seconds or 10 minutes or whatever,
and then I start and the third
one goes to more sleep.
So you're kind of trying to
create an order between the child
children by slipping them,
so the first child doesn't sleep,
the second child 10 second.
The third child, 20 second,
the 4th child 30 second, etc.
So this way, uh,
probably you end up with a correct, uh,
stream of numbers in your file or pipe,
and then the parent waits for all to finish.
And then I start reading.
Even in this case.
In a very rare case,
you will have the problem.
Anybody can have any idea?
So even if you put your child,
I mean in sleeping mode in
an increasing sleeping time.
To make force that I mean force
the order between the child.
It's still you're gonna have a
problem. In a very rare case,
but I mean in our abstract work.
Yes, actually I sock is correct,
so let's give you any.
I mean a very rare scenario. What if?
We don't put the child into sleeping mode,
however, the kernel decides A
who gonna have the processor.
What if the kernel gives the processor?
To the third child.
And then in such as one slot or twist load,
the kernel decides to give
for instance 30 slots.
Or it's better to say for instance,
25 slots? Uh. Processor.
So in this case, the child 0
doesn't have the processor,
the child one doesn't have the processor
but the child second child two,
the third child going to have the processor,
so the 1st 20 second it doesn't do anything
and then for the last five second
it starts writing the results.
It is very rare, but it happens.
So even a sleeping mode may work out
for your submission, but in a rare
case it's not a perfect solution.
Yes, I mean even I mean, uh,
in this last five seconds the
child two may write only 7.
And assuming that the writing seven was very,
I mean heavy and then, uh, the processor.
Brings, I mean get back gets back.
I mean, uh, acquire the processor again.
They cannot gets it gets the processor
back from the child two and give it to
a different site child one. So again,
you can think of other scenarios that this,
UM, a solution doesn't work.
But then most I mean the perfect,
or at this we can say that
not the perfect solution,
but we can guarantee that a
solution always works, is this.
You can create a pipe or file for each child.
So based on the number of child.
For instance, if it is I zero and
then the iteration becomes I-1 and I2.
Based on the number of iterations
that you are in,
you can create a file for that specific
child, so you can create a file,
for instance text zero dot TXT.
And then text. One dot TXT.
And then text.
Two dot TXT, basically each child.
Puts the result of the multiplication
in its own file.
And then the parent waits for
all the child to finish.
In this scenario,
it doesn't matter who gets the processor
first or it doesn't matter who has the
processor for a longer term or shorter time.
Finally, they're gonna end up with
their results in their own file.
But the parents wait for
all of them to finish.
And when all are done,
the parent started reading.
So inside the parent you can start from.
I zero up until the number of
columns or number of rows and
gradually you can start the first
file and then go to the second file,
read it and then go to 3rd file and read it.
So whether you are using your pipe or file,
this is a good solution for labs or not.
The way that I mean, Isaac, and, uh,
I think it was Danielle or Michelle
said about the memory map is that
you can do the same with the memory.
You can say that inside the memory are
shared. A piece of uh, I mean memory.
The first part is just for the first child,
the second part for the second child,
and the third part for the third child.
In this case also very similar
to the different files.
Each file on each child gonna write
out to its own. Part of the memory.
It is always a problem when
you have multiple processors,
but they are accessing the same position
of a file or the same position of a memory.
This is that we thought I mean
last session it's called a.
Race condition.
Meaning that who gets the processor
first and who wants to write
to that shared position first?
So I mean, guarantee they
ordered in a race condition is
a very I mean complex problem.
We don't discuss this,
but this is one solution that you can do.
OK.
So any question.
No questions.
So let's just start the new topic up.
So we are done with the process
manager and last session.
Or we said that we are
going to gradually start.
Communication between processes but
among different computer systems.
So basically now we want to discuss
IPC interprocess communication,
but in a network of computers.
So in order to have an IPC between
different computers, we need a
product kernel called network manager.
The networking, I mean, uh,
I mean word means that we have a
connection between the computers.
So this network means computer networks.
And Network manager is responsible.
For communication between a different
computers connected to the same network.
So process manager.
Was responsible not only for bootstrap
the process and execution of the process,
but also the process manager
was responsible for.
Uh, interprocess communication within
the same computer system between
the process inside the memory.
But the network manager goes
outside a computer system.
So still we are in a single
processor environment.
But we have multiple of them in.
I mean, in different computer systems.
So instead of just having
a multi processing system,
we have multi computers.
The best name or the common name
for this is computer networks.
So, and here is the goal
that we wanna discuss today.
We have two computers.
In, for instance,
one of them in the US,
one of them is in UK.
One of them,
for instance in Canada or whatever,
but they are they wanted to the
processes inside their memory wanted
to communicate with each other.
As you can see here, uh,
each of these computers may
have a different type of OS,
different type of processors, so it's not.
It's not guaranteed that these
are the same computer system,
they are from different platforms
or they are from different.
I mean they have different kernels.
For instance, one of them is Mac OS.
The kernel is from Apple and for
instance the hardware. The computer,
I mean the processor is from AMD company.
The other one has the processor from Intel
Company and the kernel is from Linux.
It doesn't. I mean, we don't care.
We want to make a connection between these
two computers such that the processor
inside one computer can communicate
with the process in another computer.
For this we need a connection,
a physical connection by physical
connection means that we need to prove.
I mean it connected line.
this connected line might
have a wired connection,
meaning that we use a wired.
I mean physically connected
to these two computers or wireless.
It's still in a wireless communication.
We have a physical connection,
but this physical connection
is through waves.
But this week all this again
physical connection.
It is a wireless type of connection though.
This is a topic of,
I mean a separate course.
So basically you have one specific semester.
For discussing what are the
computer networks, how can they,
how they are communicating
with each other and etc.
Next year I probably gonna have it.
So. It takes four months for you to
discuss the details of computer networks,
but today and next week I'm going to
give you a very brief introduction
from those topics that we need for
making a connection between processes.
So the first thing about computer
network is is the topology or the way
that the computer systems are connected.
Other different psychologists,
ring line, star or bus.
In this course, we don't care
as long as one computer can
communicate with another one.
That's fine for us, so we don't
care about topology in this course.
You can read more in that course
in the computer network course.
But what we do here is network protocol.
What is network protocol?
When different computers with
different platforms and different
kernels wanted to communicate,
they have to agree on a shared
language on a shared protocol.
So for instance,
what is the language of communication?
What is the order of communication?
Who talks first and then who listens?
I mean, who talks second, etc.
So the order within the communication.
How they can find each other?
What is the standard for a?
I mean, is an address or
postal code or whatever.
So for instance,
in the real world you can send an email
to a person residing in another country,
so all the countries around the world are.
I mean have an agreement
about mailing protocol.
Very similar to the computer networks.
We need a network protocol in
a computer network in order
to provide communication with.
As I already said,
the first communication
happened at this year 75.
Just two computers between Stanford
and University College London,
UK and then two years later.
They could add one more computer.
Three computers could connect,
communicate with each other.
Between US, UK and Norway you see
they just wanted to prove that.
The location doesn't matter as long
as they are connected in some way,
wireless or wired,
it is able to provide
communication within the computers.
There are. Many protocols,
some protocols that just for a
smaller scale networks some protocol.
Or for I mean global scale.
I mean computer networks.
But, uh, among all these protocols,
I'm going to use one of the comments
and one of the most I mean.
Important one called TCP IP.
Uh, basically all the computers
right now connected through the
Internet is using this protocol.
So what this means is,
I mean the name of this
protocol actually just in name.
It doesn't represent all the protocol,
all the.
I mean options that this protocol offers,
so it's just a name at the time that
they provide this protocol they wanted
to provide a name for the protocol.
They couldn't find anything.
So they picked this name and you'll
see why they picked this name, but.
Again.
This name shouldn't mislead you
and says that, for instance,
this protocol only have TCP IP.
This protocol has a lot of other options,
so do not look at the name,
it's just the name and this
protocol has a lot of other.
I mean ways of communication and ways of,
I mean.
Uh, other options?
So again,
from this protocol,
I'm just going to give those
parts that we need for our course
or for our I mean goal,
which is basically the network IPC.
This TCP IP start with the
first layer called link layer.
In this course we don't care about
this layer, but for just as a brief
introduction in this layer of the protocol.
It says that what is the physical connection?
Whether it's a wired through
the cables, Ethernet.
So basically these are the Ethernet network.
Interfaces or network cards.
You can buy it and install
it in your computer,
or sometimes it is on board.
And or it is maybe wireless.
So through Wi-Fi.
There are other ways of communication,
Bluetooth, infrared and etc also.
Infrared, I mean it's still for short.
Distance communication or Bluetooth
for the short distance communication.
But Wi-Fi long distance communication.
But again, in this course we don't care.
About the type of physical communication,
but whatever happens in the physical layer,
the connection and etc is the topic
of the link layer of the TCP IP.
After we make sure that the computers
are connected in some way, the next
layer of the TCP IP protocol is that.
How they can find each other?
What is the standard naming or
adressing between the computers?
This layer is called internetwork.
Or Internet layer or network layer.
These are different names for this layer,
Internet layer or network layer,
but in the market or in the industry.
This layer is called Internet Protocol or IP.
So it's not a protocol.
As a general sense,
it's just a protocol for adressing.
So it's just a very small
part of the TCP IP as a.
I mean network protocol.
So, but because it's a very important layer,
it's called Internet Protocol or IP.
Probably most of you heard about what is IP,
for instance,
when you install a modem in your computer.
Or I mean in your home for Internet.
Probably all of you heard about IP.
Basically, it's nothing, just.
Is standard for adressing of the computers.
Or naming of the computers,
so it's a kind of postal code
or address for a computer.
So for instance, if you have three computers,
this is the format of the address
for this computer based on the.
Internet Protocol off the TCP IP protocol.
This is another address and etc.
I will discuss shortly about what
are these numbers and but again,
for this course it doesn't matter who.
Assigns these addresses.
Why the format is like this?
We don't care about these.
I mean questions.
We just say that what is the IP of the
address and somebody gives us the address,
that's it.
But who gave this address to that computer?
Or why the format is just four numbers?
We don't care.
So after we make sure that the
computers are connected and all
the computers have some addresses,
as I mean those IP numbers.
Then we can provide a communication.
There are different ways of communication,
all different ways of communication handled
by this layer called transport layer.
So basically,
what is the communication protocol?
So we have the physical connection protocol
we have the address in protocol and now we
have the ways of communication protocol.
So in the TCP IP there are two
important ways of communication.
One of them is called UDP or
user data gram protocol.
And what is this way of communication?
In order to understand these
ways of communication,
you have to just simply imagine
sending an email or sorry,
sending email.
Uh, to a person.
So basically when you are
sending a mail to another person,
the only thing you need is the address
of the target computer or target person.
There's some problem with this
communication, not a problem.
This is a property of this
type of communication.
The first one is that.
There is no order enforced
in this communication.
By this I mean that if
you send a mail sooner.
It's not guaranteed to
received sooner as well.
You may send an email today
and also another person sends
a mail for instance tomorrow,
but their receiver may receive the
email of the other person sooner,
so there is no guarantee.
In time or order.
Another thing is that there is
no reliability, meaning that.
When you send your mail.
It's not guaranteed that the
receiver received the mail it Miami.
Your mail may be lost or your
mail may be delivered to another.
I mean, computer, network or whatever.
But they think the only thing here is that.
Uh, which is the most of the cases
that what if the receiver is not home?
Or what if the, uh,
computer in the receiver is turned off?
Basically your mail gonna be
lost or just gonna be dismissed.
So it's not.
It's kind of a non tracking mail.
The sender cannot get a mincey or
cannot be informed that your I
mean they mail is received or not.
That's why we call it non reliable
communication.
Another thing is that in this communication,
when you send mail you put
whatever needed for that made.
It's called self contained.
You don't rely on the previous
mail or the next mail.
You cannot say that, uh,
when you receive this mail,
wait for another 5 minutes and
you will receive another mail
you cannot do with this type of
communication because you shouldn't
rely on the previous or next mail.
Maybe the next man gonna be lost.
Or maybe the previous mails are lost and etc.
So what's the advantage of this type of
communication when there is no reliability,
there is no order or we cannot rely
or depend on previous or next meals?
The main advantage of this communication
is that it is very simple and it is light.
So basically the idea is that if you
want to send a mail, simply send it.
You don't care whether there is
still receive that or I mean,
what happens to your mirror, etc.
You just simply send it.
It's there is some responsibility
of the receiver to make sure
that it receives your mail.
So basically, uh, it is very similar.
I mean, I think most of
you have this experience.
Those that I mean, immigrate to Canada.
So basically, if you become a PR,
the Government of Canada
sends your PR document,
which is a very important official document,
but just a regular mail
without any tracking number.
So basically it says that it's the
responsibility of the person to
receive the mail so the government
doesn't accept any overhead.
So it uses the most simplest and
the cheapest way of communication.
So it's simply send the PR to your address.
You may not be home, you may,
I mean they made.
Maybe I mean last or whatever.
Maybe another person receiver,
I mean neyland etc.
So it's not the responsibility
of the Government of Canada.
It is simple and lot,
but you have to decide when this is the
best community way of communication.
So as you can see here, for instance,
this computer sends one mail.
Sooner. But and then later,
it's for instance a message later it
sends another message B. But the.
B gets to the target sooner than the egg.
So although the time of
sending 4B is I mean larger,
but it is received sooner and also
if you send it another message,
see it maybe get lost and doesn't, I mean.
Uh, I mean it's not received
by the I mean receiver.
Another a type of communication
in TCP IP protocol is called TCP.
So now you see why they picked
that name for the network protocol.
This is the communication called
Transmission control Protocol or TCP.
It is called connection oriented
or I mean compared to the UDP.
It is very similar to the phone call.
So when you are trying to talk to a person.
You want to make sure that that person is
present and that person is listening to your.
I mean talk so very similar to our situation.
So the first thing is that you have to
make a call and if the person actually
take your call then you started speaking.
As long as the person doesn't take your call,
you don't speak because you know that
whatever you say it's just get lost.
So.
This is the reliable type of communication.
Basically, first you have to
make a connection to make sure
that the receiver is alive.
And then they're ready to receive the
message. So not only it is alive,
but also it is ready to receive your message.
So it is reliable. Secondly, it's ordered.
For instance, when you do a phone call.
Whatever you are saying transmitted in order,
even right now when I'm talking
to the blackboard, my sentences,
my words are transmitted to you in order.
What happens if one word actually
received sooner than the other word?
So basically then you cannot
understand what I'm saying.
So in this type of communication,
the order between the messages transmitted
from the sender to receiver is guaranteed.
So for instance, if you are saying hi there,
how are you the receiver receives high
first and then receive their first and etc.
Even if the receiver receives their first.
And then high next.
This protocol.
Correct that for you.
So in this type of communication,
even if your words are receiving
in mixture order or mixed order,
this protocol fixed up for you
in order such that the receiver
listens to your talk in order.
So again, reliability is trans,
I mean guaranteed order is guaranteed.
And also as you can see here.
In this type of communication you can
rely on whatever it is received so far,
and you can rely on the next.
I mean packets or next messages
because it's a stream of the messages.
You will make a connection and you
start sending the messages in a stream.
So you can rely on previous or next packets.
But what's the problem with
this type of communication?
The problem is that the overhead.
For the sender to make a connection.
So in this type of connect communication
you have to make a connection first.
As long as you don't have the connection,
you cannot send your message.
That's not overhead.
So if you wanted to compare with
the way that the Government
of Canada sent the message.
Uh, if the Government of Canada
wants to send this PR card in a.
PCP way the Government of Canada
should first make a call and make
sure that I'm available at my
home at 2:00 o'clock and then the
package is there at 2:00 o'clock.
So that's an overhead for
the account of Canada,
so they don't do such a thing.
So you use this type of communication
whenever you want to transmit an
important message or the reliability
and the order matters most for you.
Because most of the communication
happened in this protocol is of type TCP.
And the. Address protocol or the
network protocol is called IP.
That's why they use the name TCP IP.
So again. It doesn't mean that
it doesn't have UDP, it has UDP.
It has other types of communication,
but because the TCP type of
communication is the most mostly
used type of communication,
they call this network TCP IP.
And then when we know war,
how the communication type
different tough competition,
the communication oriented or the
connection less type of communication.
Now we can provide the communication
between the processes.
This is happen at the application layer.
At top most layer of the network protocol.
Basically any process that
wants to communicate through
the network is in this layer.
Very similar to the
application level programming.
In this course we have a kernel and we
have the application level programs,
so this network protocol is very similar.
We have network protocol,
link layer, IP layer,
transport layer and on top of
all these three layers we have
the application layer that are
going to use the whole network
layers to transmitted data.
And so now I'm going to discuss a.
The workflow of a communication
between two or more than two.
My example includes only two computers,
but it's not about just two computers.
It can be about more than two computers.
But I'm going to explain how we
can use the TCP IP protocol.
To provide a communication
between two processes.
So far, if there is any question,
I'm ready to take your questions.
So we have I saw. Did you
know that they replaced TLS
handshakes with TLS elbow bumps?
I have no idea about what you said right now.
Haha, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry TLS handshakes saw.
Sorry.
These are cultural differences,
so I so maybe later you have to discuss
always what was behind the. This joke?
Oh, now I see. Oh, gotcha.
Now I now I see yes, I mean,
when you do handshake,
it's a connection oriented communication.
But when you do a yes,
I'll bump or. You're right.
That's a good example.
Yeah, you're right.
So now I understand.
So basically the UDP is kind of,
I mean elbow bump.
And handshakes are a TCP. True.
Good to know yes yeah.
Any other questions?
In Unity, does this speed of sending file?
Depends on the size of that
file or no criteria for it.
So miss some asks that in UDP
does this speed of ascending file.
Once a male depends on the size of
that file or no criteria for it.
Ah. I leave this, uh?
I mean, let me back to the UDP.
Yeah, uh, this visa called,
I mean transferring the packets.
And basically if you have
a message which is large,
it is breaking down into smaller packets.
The way the transport layer sends your
message, whether in the UDP or TCP way.
Uh, I'm not going to discuss that.
Basically, it's beyond my knowledge.
Uh, I I don't know the details of the
networks and as I said in this course.
In this course.
It can fully understand how
happens when you are sending a
message within two computers,
how the large messages
breaking down into a lot.
I mean smaller packets and etc.
So for us we don't care for us.
The only thing is that if we use UDP,
we just send the message whether
it's large or small one,
and we hope that the receiver
sends the whole messages.
Maybe the receiver receives some of
your messages and lose some others.
In the TCP a,
it is guaranteed that the receiver
gonna receive your message in a hole.
I mean the whole packets of your
message in order because it's unreliable
and but how long does it take?
It depends on the way that their
routing happens in the network.
Uh,
but again I'm not going to
discuss the routing and etc.
Sorry routing, I should say rotate, yeah,
they're rotating between the computers.
So in this course you gonna discuss that?
Yeah, I'll leave it there.
But for this course we just, uh,
wanted to communicate within two
processes. Whether it's UDP or TCP.
The only thing we should know
is that when you are using UDP.
You shouldn't assume that,
uh, your message. Uh, uh,
I mean uh will be received by the receiver.
Your message may be lost or if you send
two or three messages in a four loop,
you shouldn't guarantee that the receiver
receives your messages in order.
But in TCP.
Uh, the only thing we need to know
is that if you send your message,
it is guaranteed that the message is
received, otherwise you receive an
an error or kind of acknowledgement.
Uh, and if you send multiple messages,
you guaranteed that, uh,
the messages are received in
order in the receiver.
These are the only thing that we need.
How these protocols provide these mechanisms.
In that course you can learn.
OK, so. Let's see an example of
communication. So if a process.
If it process.
Inside a computer of the architecture,
apple and the kernel is Mac OS.
Wanted to communicate with another
process inside another computer of.
I mean platform Intel
and the kernel is Linux.
What happens is that this process
must first ask the kernel.
The network manager part of the kernel
to provide a communication for you.
The network manager of the kernel
implements the layers of the protocol.
In this case the TCP IP protocol.
If you choose the TCP IP.
The TCP IP has the first layer
is linked on top of that we have
the IP or Internet Protocol and
then on top of that we have the
transport layer or protocol.
And then in the receiver
on the target computer,
the same happens in the kernel of the, uh,
I mean the receiver or target computer.
The same layers of the network protocol.
The process when it wants to send a message
it gives to the network part of network
and network manager part of the kernel.
And says that I want to communicate
by the TCP IP protocol. As I said,
there are different network protocols.
You can ask the kernel to provide
another type of protocol for you,
but in this example I'm going to use TCP IP.
You ask the kernel that you want to
make a communication by TCP IP protocol.
As a result, it you go to
the stack of these layers.
You send a message to the transport layer.
And in the transport layer you
decide you are going to use the
UDP or you are going to use TCP.
And then the kernel wraps your
messages based on your protocol
that you chose UDP or TCP and added
the address of you and the sender.
So in the Internet layer or IP layer.
Like it,
I mean mail or like a phone call in the mail.
You have to put the address
your address as the sender.
Also you have to put the address
of your receiver.
If you do a phone call you have to show
your own phone number and also you have
to make a call to the target phone call.
So this handles in the Internet or
IP layer of the TCP IP protocol.
So basically here the address thing happens.
And then your message having the
address of the source and the
target gonna be sent to a physical
layer to be ready for transmission.
Whether it's a wireless network
or it's a I mean network,
I mean Ethernet card,
it goes to the hardware part of the computer.
So in this layer you may see that
the device manager part of the kernel
also is involved because it's a
device that does the transmission.
And then it goes through the
network whether it's a cable,
whether it's a wireless or whatever.
We don't care.
In the target,
whether I mean how among all
millions of computers,
the this computer is a I mean selected.
Again, this is a topic of computer network.
Among all the computers,
because your message has this address,
this country, they're going to be selected.
And then goes to the net physical
layer of the target computer.
Whether it's a again Ethernet or wireless
communication and then goes to the IP part
of the TCP IP protocol in the target.
Here, uh, the target knows who sends
the email or who did the phone call.
And then whether the message is correctly.
I mean he this computer
is the receiver or not.
Because, uh, this computer.
If this is the source,
and this is the target.
So in this layer, the receiver checks that
whether this mail is his mail or others.
If it is, others made it means that the
packet or the mail is delivered incorrectly,
so it simply ignores that.
Also, there is severe can decide whether to,
I mean,
receive the message from this source or not.
You may, uh, for instance,
you may send a lot of mail
to the Government of Canada,
but the Governor,
Condamine ignore your mail because
basically they could say that we just
accept mails from specific sources.
Whatever process you are doing
with the addresses happens in
the Internet layer in the target,
and if everything goes well,
it goes to the transfer layer in this layer.
Whether it's a UDP or TCP a,
if it is TCP, it tries to reorder
the received messages to make order.
If it is used UDP,
it does other stuff.
And finally it sends the I mean
desired message to the target process.
But as you can see here, if, as a programmer,
we want to handle all these. Uh, I mean.
Not some bolts of the layers.
I mean the transport layer
IP layer and the link layer.
It's very hard for us to,
I mean directly program these.
I mean talk to these layers off the Colonel.
As a result, the kernels
provide a very high level,
easy interface for programs.
Called socket.
So whether it's a source or target,
or whether it's a sender or receiver.
Both of them has something called
socket and this socket handles
whatever required in those layers,
whether it's a transport layer,
whether it's an IP layer or
whether it's a link layer.
Everything gonna be handled by the socket.
So it's become very easy for us.
We just talked to the socket and the
socket handles everything in the receiver.
The receiver only talks to the socket
and doesn't care about what happens
in the other layers of the TCP IP.
One thing is that very important
thing is that socket is not
part of the network protocol.
So it is not part of the TCP IP.
Very important, it is part of the kernel.
In order to facilitate
communication by the TCP IP,
protocol or other protocols.
So soak, it is just a kind of liquid,
say add-on or easy health.
By the kernel four programs.
It's not part of any network protocol.
So now I'm going to.
A start, a sample that does a
communication by the TCP IP protocol.
Using the UDP or unigram that I
mean user data, gram protocol.
For sending a message.
By the sender and receiving
the message by the receiver.
Basically, any communication that uses
these sockets for communication within
computers is called socket programming.
So in this course we want to learn how to
do socket programming in order to provide.
Communication.
It's in processes.
In a computer network.
The first example is using UDP and
next session I'm going to explain TCP.
Basically the TCP also in the lab 11.
So if you read about the manual
of the lab 11 are explained,
these steps of the.
TCP, a type of communication
using the TCP IP protocol.
So here is the starting point.
The first thing here is that.
What should we do as a sender?
Again, we are using the
TCP IP network protocol.
We want to use UDP as a
connectionless communication.
Non reliable but simple without
a simple online communication.
And you just, uh, wanted to.
I mean simulate sending email.
So these are the required
tasks as a standard.
We have to first create a socket.
By asking the Colonel.
And then we have to tell this socket
that what is our address as the sender.
As a sender, it is optional.
It's likely I mean,
when you receive an ad you may not
see the address who send you that ad,
so it's very similar to that.
The sender in the UDP protocol.
As a programming, it's not required
to provide any address to the socket.
Basically, you can leave it to the socket.
To provide the address for you.
So as a programmer,
you may not do anything about addresses.
The third one is that, uh,
you have to tell to the socket that you
are sending this message to what target.
This is required because
you have a destination,
you must have a destination for your message.
And then when you have this socket,
when you have the address of the receiver,
then you send your mail to the receiver.
These are all tasks of the sender.
So let's see what is the first step.
The first step is that asking
the kernel to give you a socket.
So basically we call this creating
a socket or opening a socket.
These are different words.
This system call is simply called socket.
It is in the header socket
dot edge in the system.
Their file. As you can see here,
this system called needs some argument.
These arguments tells the socket
that you are trying to provide
a communication of what type.
And what protocol?
Because the socket can use for other
type of network protocol as well.
Not just TCP IP.
If the socket a provider I mean
created for you by the kernel.
I mean without any problem you receive
something called socket descriptor.
I mean, in short Steve,
it isn't very similar to the file
descriptor you remember when you
wanted to create or open a file.
The kernel returns you a file descriptor
here is very similar actually.
Indeed,
behind the scene it is implemented
very similar to the file descriptors.
Here you ask the kernel to give
you a socket and the returns in.
The socket descriptor is a number,
not not negative number.
Very similar to the file descriptor.
But if it fails, it gives you minus one.
So in order to create a socket,
basically you have to add this
header file because that system
call is in this header file.
Whatever related to socket is
in this system header file.
You need two other header files because we
are going to use TCP IP network protocol.
You may use other network protocols,
then you need other header files,
but in this example because we
are going to use TCP IP protocol,
we need these two header files.
I am used at Internet Protocol
or TCP IP protocol.
And these are the required
arguments for this system.
I mean the socket system called.
The first argument is the domain.
Basically, in this argument you
are telling that what network
protocol you are going to use.
You see here there are four options
based on the standard post standard.
The IP version four IPV version six Unix,
and etc.
Again, as you can see here, as I said,
there are a lot of network protocols,
but you are going to use
the TCP IP of version 4.
So basically F means that address family,
so we are going to use the other family
of Internet Protocol version 4 by default.
So it's a constant.
Defined in the socket.
It's a number, but it's a constant use.
We usually use the constant.
And then the second argument is
that what type of communication
you want to do by this socket.
So if you need a connection less,
you can use data gram.
If you need a connection oriented,
you can use stream.
So you see, here sequence, reliable,
bidirectional connection oriented stream.
But connection less unreliable
message is the diagram.
So in this example we are going to use UDP,
so that's why we use this connection less.
The third one is that what is the
default or what is the protocol
that you want to do this for?
I mean this communication. Again,
this protocol is kind of the name, kind of.
I mean confusing name for this argument.
Because this is not,
it's not meant a network protocol.
It is meant that one is the protocol in the
transport layer of the network protocol.
So basically in the trans.
Port layer.
What is the communication protocol?
So if you use the data gram,
the default is UDP.
If you use the stream, the default is TCP.
You can do other type of
communications as you can see here,
but if you pass zero.
The kernel tries to find
the default transportation.
For if you want the connection less in
the TCP IP by providing these two values.
Bypassing the zero,
it means that UDP.
So in TCP IP protocol connection,
less type of communication.
The default protocol is UDP.
If you want the TCP IP protocol
but connection oriented,
if you pass zero it becomes TCP IP.
We discuss it next week.
Now that we know what type of communication
you want to ask from the kernel,
you have to simply call the system call.
Socket for the TCP IP connection less
and the default protocol which is UDP.
You have to check their return number,
the socket descriptor if it is minus one,
meaning that the socket cannot
be created if it is non zero,
meaning that the circuit has been created.
As you can see here,
it is very similar to the open system
call for file and file descriptors.
And as I said, behind the scene, uh,
the implementation is very similar.
Any idea that why the socket descriptor
and the file descriptor are very similar?
Remember about. File and we
said that file is a stream of
characters, infinite characters.
So. As you can see here,
when we are trying to deal with these socket,
basically we are dealing with the
extreme of infinite array of characters.
So writing to a socket means that
sending the message to a target mean
it's very similar to writing to a file.
So we said that everything as I success
in Unix. Every device is a file.
So socket is connecting you to a
communication, I mean hardware.
For instance, it's a network interface,
so when you write to the socket,
it's very similar to write
to the network device,
which is very similar to write into a file.
So that's why it is very
similar to the file descriptor.
So again, whenever you forget
something about socket,
you can recall the file and
then whatever you can do
with the file descriptor is.
This probably can be done
by the socket descriptor.
So when you have this socket, the next is
telling the socket what is your address.
This is optional. Why?
Because the kernel is still in the
same computer as your process. So.
Whether you provide the address of
your computer directly to the socket
or you can simply leave it to the
kernel because the kernel is inside
the same computer so they can and
knows the address so it doesn't.
I mean both are the same,
so whether you provide the I mean the
address of computer yourself or leave
it to the kernel to do that for you,
that's why it is optional.
Another reason is that usually the
sender is from other computers.
If you write a program and you want to
run that program in different computers.
Uh, you have to change the
IP inside your program.
However, if you leave it to the kernel,
then your program doesn't have the
IP address inside your program,
so you can run your program in
different computers and the kernel
of those computers can add the
address for you instead of just.
You provide the address inside the program.
But anyways,
let's see how if the program
wants to provide the address,
how it is possible.
In order to, uh,
give the address to the socket,
it's called binding an address to a socket.
So the system call is in the
same header file as the socket.
But the name of the system called is bind.
It needs the socket descriptor.
So basically you have to tell that you
want to bind this address to what socket
and then you have to provide the address.
The address here is not
just a simple string of IP.
Basically it's a data structure in C program.
It has a lot of fields you have to fill
out these fields and then you have to
pass the length of the data structure.
That's fine.
So let's see what happens.
So first of all, in the TCP IP protocol
you have to provide the address.
Informal 4 numbers.
These four numbers,
each of them are between zero to
255. Basically each one is 1 byte,
so at the end you're gonna have four bytes.
And in the Texas team,
they usually separated by a dot.
But uh, when you provide the address,
they become the same.
I mean, they concatenate to each
other and they come one number.
So if you want to see what is the
IP of your computer as a sender,
there are many ways to know the address,
the IP address of your computer.
One of the easy one is this command.
Just name is name is.
Look up host name.
Host name means that the
current computer system.
There are millions of ways to find
the IP address of a computer.
Assuming that this is the
IP address of the sender.
Then you have to simply use this
function to convert a string
of IP to an actual address.
Of the uh,
based on the IP protocol.
And then.
You need another part as the address.
This is called port. What is port?
Let's back to the this, uh.
Figure. In one computer.
This is not just your process,
there are a lot of other processes.
As we said, we have multiple
processes inside a memory.
How you should tell the kernel
that your process is the one
that wants to communicate,
not other processes.
So this socket should know that, uh,
this socket belongs to what process?
In the network protocol,
this is going to be determined by the port.
You have to tell the socket that
what is the port of your process.
So the port as you can see here,
is an integer number.
UM, it is from zero up until
some maximum number, but as the.
Normal program as a normal process.
You have to define a port larger
than this number because the lower
number cannot be used by the kernel
itself or super dual processes.
So basically you can use a number
larger than this number as in number
that distinguish your process from
other processes inside the computer.
This pair the IP which is the
address of the computer and the
port which distinguishes your
process from other processes,
is called endpoint.
This is called a full address and
it is unique all around the world.
Why? Because the IP is unique
for your computer all around the
world and inside your computer.
This port is the unique number for
your process only. As a result,
despair is unique all around the world.
So if you send a message to any computer,
the receiver knows that that message
is coming from what process and
what computer all around the world.
Again, as a sender,
you can simply leave it to the kernel
to provide a random number for you.
If you pass zero, they cannot
provide some random number for you,
and you don't care about what's the number.
So again, these lines of code
are optional for the center.
And then you have to define the
data structures, socket address,
Internet and this is the name of
the variable sender assignment.
I chose that variable.
There are three fields that
you have to fill out.
You have to put the domain again.
You have to provide the IP
address that we created.
You have to provide the code
address that we created and then
you have to pass it at the second
argument to the BIND system code.
The by system called binds the socket.
Accept the socket descriptor
to the address that you gave
to the bind system called.
This way you are binding the
pair of IP ports to the socket.
The whole disappointing is again,
optional force, and the third
one is that now that the sender
is ready to send the message,
so to who the sender wants to send a message.
So it should tell the socket that I
want to send a message to the receiver,
but what is the address of the receiver?
This is a must because if you don't
have the address for the receiver,
the socket don't know to what
computer should send a message.
This is very similar to binding
the address of the source,
not the sender. Basically again,
you have to provide the IP of the receiver.
Also, you have to provide the port
of the process that going to receive
that is going to receive your message.
And then you have to provide these
two numbers in this socket address.
The same data structure but different names.
I put the receiver because this
is the address of the receiver.
You provide what is the protocol
of receiving a message?
What is the address of the receiver?
What is the pull of the receiver?
And again,
the pair of IP4 is unique for the
receiver all around the world.
So you guarantee that.
This message, I mean the network
protocol gonna guarantee that this
message that we are going to send is
receiving by only one process inside
one computer all around the world.
Ah, sorry, you have some noise here, just.
I think they are done.
And the last one is that when you tell
the when you know the receiver address,
now you want to send a message.
So this system called to
sending a message is sent 2.
It is very similar to writing to a file.
Basically you are writing to the socket,
but the system called name is different.
You provide the buffer very
similar to the right in your file.
You say that my information
is inside this buffer.
I want to send this amount of points.
The flag is usually zero.
There are other options and then
you provide the address of the
receiver in this argument and the
length of that data structure.
Usually these arguments are zero and
the size, so they don't have to be.
You don't have to worry about
these arguments,
the only thing is that this sender
the receiving address and the message
that you want to send and the socket.
So again, you, this is the
message that we want to send.
This is the system call.
Send two to this socket.
This is the man that you want to
send and this is the receiver.
And if you run this program,
uh, let me just show this.
Uh.
Yeah. So here is the program
I just wanted to show you the.
So this is the program for the sender.
So again, these are the same
lines of code, the protocol.
Creating a socket.
And then, as you can see here,
I commented all the lines about
binding the address of the sender.
Today's socket, you can uncomment them,
but it's not necessary.
I just leave it to the kernel to
provide the address of the computer
and the port number for the sender,
but about their receiver I have to
provide the address of the receiver
and the port of the receiver.
And in this structure,
and then I call this send to this message.
And let's see if I send a message.
Build it and then send a message.
You see that, uh, because by each
run we are sending a message.
So.
A good question here is that.
Whether the receiver is alive.
Whether the receiver is receiving
the message that I'm going,
I am sending or not.
What's your answer?
So.
Exactly basically in the
UDP we just send a message.
We don't care whether the receiver is alive,
there is a there exists as some
receiver or no. That's why.
I mean, we just wrote the sender part.
But we haven't write down.
We haven't programmed the receiver part.
But they re sender doesn't know
that there is no receiver,
it just successfully send a message.
It doesn't receive any error.
It doesn't know whether the
receiver exists or not.
So basically what happens is that
your message going to be lost or
dismissed by the network purple
because the network protocol tries
to find the target computer and
the target process by the IP port
and there is no such a thing,
it's simply drop your messages.
And the sender doesn't know
that the message is dropped.
The sender assumes that hopefully
the receiver received the message.
Another, uh? Issue not the issue
another I mean confusing part is this.
We provide IP as four numbers.
Separated by dots and also poured.
Is an integer number that is greater than.
This number. But when we print out the
IP and the port, there are different.
This is the IP port of the sender.
This is the IP port of the receiver.
Why they are different?
So I leave it for you because we at
the sender we put this IP and this port
and the receiver this IP and this port.
But when we print out the numbers
there are not the same as this.
So I leave it for you that why
they are not looking similar.
Oh, uh. I'll get back to
your question Nicholas.
So basically we don't have any more
time to discuss about the receiver part.
We'd done the sender part so we
could send the message successfully.
But we have to define what's
going on with the receiver.
We have to write a program
that received the message.
So there are some tasks for the receiver.
Next session I'm going to
explain what are the tasks.
Should be done by the receiver.
Uh, so we can finish today's lecture here.
As the sender part and then in
the receiver part next week
we kind of discussed that.
So now I'm ready to take your questions.
So let's start with the.
Nicholas question says that.
No worries, Danielle.
Nicholas says that, uh,
can we replace the address
with the domain name?
Yes, correct. So basically, uh.
Dealing with the numbers as
they address is very hard.
So basically imagine that you want to,
I mean. Uh, I mean memorize this number
for yourself or for the receiver.
Usually a we provide a high
level readable for human name,
for instance
google.com. Or for instance, uwindsor.
Dot CA, for instance,
the name for the schools computer
is called CS Dot U Windsor dots CA.
So this is a better way to run.
Remember an address.
However, in TCP IP we for the IP
protocol we needed number for that.
So this is going to be mapped by a number,
for instance 137 and etc.
This mapping is handled by a.
Topic called domain name is space or DNS.
Uh, you again, you will know
about this in computer networks.
But yes, there is a way to map the name.
All the computer with the IP of the computer.
Using this socket.
So basically you can tell the kernel.
What is the ad IP address
of CS dot U Windsor?
Dot CA.
And it returns to you the IP address of that.
It says this IP.
So it is possible, yes.
I want discuss this because
we need to know a lot of
other functions to do that.
But yes, if you look at
the book inside the book,
it explains how you can convert
a domain name to an IP address.
So we have a.
I suck says not exactly.
You would need the IP address of the
DNS server to convert your domain name.
That's all for us pathetic email.
Yeah, you're right, I said.
But then again, I mean the kernel
can find the IP address of the
name by looking up the DNS, yeah?
Yes Nicholas, we can't do that.
We can do inside the program.
We can use the name of the.
Computer inside the IP,
but again not here.
Oh wait a second if you're
asking about, let me come here.
If you are asking about here.
Instead of just putting the IP,
just Simply put the.
I mean the name no.
You cannot do that,
it's more I mean complicated
than that you have to use other
functions to do the mapping for you.
So there are other functions
that you pass the name.
As I said and it gives you the IP and
then you have to put the IP here.
Oh, actually, I can give you an example.
Let's me. I. Wait a sack, uh?
There is a sample code that I will share.
I mean let me show it right now.
This is the way that you can use
the names of the IP in your program.
Let me see that I can't find it.
Where is that? Where is that a?
Yeah, let me show you I I sent
this link for you as well.
So. In this example,
let me zoom in a little bit.
Who is that actually?
The example is about TCP IP,
but as you can see here.
Uh, there are, uh, this header file.
That you can pass in name,
for instance google.com and you
can have the address of the IP
address of that domain name, yeah?
But I won't discuss that because
it's just a additional option for
you to know the IP address of a,
uh, I mean domain.
So this is the function.
So basically you have to pass get host name.
Uh, in the netdb.
You pass the domain name and it
gives you this data structure
and this data structure has
the address list and attach.
Uh, let me send you the link. So.
Yeah, here's the link you can.
This is a very good example, uh, for.
Why I mean call me sending
in communication with a boy?
A TCP IP using the domain name, yeah?
You too have a great day.
I'm going to be in the office,
so if you have any questions or
anything you want to discuss,
I'm there so. I.
If there is any question that I.
Couldn't answer. Uh.
So let me see.